# Retrospective  

During our retrospective activity after Iteration 2, as a team, we discussed a part of our project that has not been as successful as we had intended. Code components for a new feature we added during Iteration 2 were violating our software architecture guidelines. We agreed that the way we save newly created memes was something that we didn’t focus enough on during development, and we did not take into account the way the layers in our application are supposed to interact, and what their responsibilities are in this particular case.  To be more specific, the act of saving the newly created image is currently the responsibility of the presentation layer, when in fact the presentation layer should not know about how images are saved in the file system. This way of writing and structuring our code has led to code smells currently present in codebase.
Therefore, we decided that this is a part of our project that needs immediate improvement.  

Then, we discussed ways that this can be improved and methods to prevent similar oversights during our next iteration. We decided on some longer term changes we can make to our development process as well as short-term improvements to address the abovementioned issue currently present in our codebase. Two of the longer-term improvements we discussed are having better documentation during team meetings and having team code review sessions.  

Better documentation during meetings will help us keep track of all the code and implementation issues discussed in a meeting and ensure those issues are properly addressed and solved by team members. This could also help us prevent stressful last-minute fixes to our code before release.
The other longer-term improvement we agreed on was having team code review sessions. Developing individually can often lead to tunnel vision, and focusing primarily on making code work, while ignoring software design principles that make code well-structured, leading to code smells. This would be extremely beneficial at the end of an iteration, because as a team we may catch code anomalies that an individual may have disregarded. Additionally, it would keep individual team members accountable and makes them strive to write quality code.  

A short-term improvement we discussed in order to make our code adhere to the 3-tier architecture guidelines was refactoring code using known software design principles and patterns. More specifically, we decided to create a new class called SaveHandler in the business layer in order to eliminate the direct interaction between the presentation and the persistence layer. We would also need to modify the appropriate methods in the CreateMemeActivity and SaveMemeActivity classes so that they use the SaveHandler class instead of ImageSaver to save a meme.
To evaluate our success after we apply our improvements we would analyze our written code to ensure that it doesn’t violate SOLID principles and there are no code smells present. Additionally, we would make sure that our code now adheres to our code architecture guidelines. We would also extensively test our application to confirm that refactoring our code has not led to new errors. 
	
	
